# Capstone-Project-Unsupervised

Netflix as a company is the biggest online platform present at the time which provides us with the facility to enjoy movies or TV shows at any given time. In 2018, a report showed that the number of TV shows on Netflix has nearly tripled since 2010 whereas the number of movies has decreased by more than 2000 titles. This shows how consumers have shifted from consuming movies to TV shows regularly.

The main objective of this project is to bring out the insights hidden in the dataset and bring out some answers to the questions like what type of content is preferred the most? Do people really prefer watching shows over movies? What is the type of content that people generally love to watch and many more? We will be performing Exploratory Data Analysis to answer these questions and finally, we will be clustering the content based on the features which help the platform give better recommendations and keep its customers engaged.

Giving better recommendations is really important for the OTT platforms since it will generate interest in the customers and the more engaged the customer is the more revenue the platforms will generate through the customers resulting in profits for the company.

While working on the project, we made use of Unsupervised machine learning algorithms like k means clustering. We also used Natural Language processing to make the data suitable for the model. We also made use of Word Cloud which let us determine what are the most frequent words that are used in any particular column. We saw that although tv shows are in trend, the number of movies on Netflix is almost double that of tv shows. Also, the directors, Raul Campos and Jan Suter have the most productions, and actors like Anupam Kher, Shah Rukh Khan, and Om Puri are the top 3 actors that have worked in the most number of productions.
We also analyzed data w.r.t. to different countries and derived what are the type of shows that are preferred most in any respective country. Talking about the duration, in the case of movies, the majority of movies have a duration between 60 minutes to 150 minutes. Whereas in the case of tv shows, the majority of tv shows have 1 or 2 seasons and a very less amount of shows have more than 3 seasons.

Finally, we performed clustering and found that after performing all the preprocessing and with the help of the elbow method and the Silhouette score, we have determined that the dataset can be clustered into 11 clusters. Although the dendrogram graph is showing 6 clusters on a very broad level but using the 11 clusters, we are getting a pretty well clustering, providing us with deeper yet efficient clusters which are even able to differentiate not only between genres but also between the type of the production.

